---
layout:     post
title:      Marsden fund success
date:       2018-11-08 10:02:00
summary:    Funding for research in Australian lithics
categories: general
---

Really excited and honoured to be selected for the [2018 round](https://royalsociety.org.nz/what-we-do/funds-and-opportunities/marsden/awarded-grants/marsden-fund-awards-2018) of the [Royal Society of New Zealand Marsden Fund](https://royalsociety.org.nz/what-we-do/funds-and-opportunities/marsden)!

The project I submitted is entitled 'Models and Movement: Simulating Human Mobility in Late Holocene South-eastern Australia'. The proposal was written in response to a growing number of studies of social and demographic change based on large databases of radiocarbon dates. A big reason that this is possible is that radiocarbon data, particularly that published in the large corpus of heritage reports referred to as 'grey literature', can be very effectively 'databased': that is, it comes in a fairly standardized format that can be combined easily. Other proxies for human behavior are not always so easy to analyze *en mass*. Stone artifacts, for example, are highly prevalent in archaeological records worldwide but are often recorded in varying detail depending on the interests and training of the archaeologist, their attention to detail, and the requirements of reporting literature. My study aims to integrate artifact assemblages across a wide study area) To do this, the study uses [computer simulation to generate expectations](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/american-antiquity/article/modeling-relationships-between-space-movement-and-lithic-geometric-attributes/0A758BEC8978627BC11CFDF5BFEAA02D) at different degrees of recording detail, and uses well-documented studies to make better use of less-detailed records.

The Marsden process is pretty arduous: the first round involves a single page proposal with supporting documentation reviewed by a national panel of judges, while the second round requires a ten-page proposal, full budget, and supporting documentation reviewed by at least three internationally recognized experts. Of the 1103 proposals submitted for the first round, only 302 reached the second stage, and only 132 were accepted for funding. This was my second time applying; my first application was rejected after the second stage. I am absolutely humbled to have been selected.
